AppX Policy for Salary Advance 1. Purpose 1.1 This policy outlines the guidelines and procedures for employees of AppXcelerate Solutions Private Limited to request and receive a salary advance. The company recognizes that employees may occasionally face financial emergencies and aims to support them within reasonable limits. 2. Eligibility 2.1. Salary advance can be applied only in case of following situations - Relocation, health (self and immediate family), children education and marriage (self and immediate family). 2.2. Permanent employees who have completed at least six months of full-time continuous service with the company. 2.3. The employee should not have any outstanding salary advances at the time of request. 2.4. Employees on contract or notice period are not eligible. 3. Salary Advance Limit 3.1 The advance amount shall not exceed 40% of the employees’ CTC or ₹ 2,00,000, whichever is lower. 3.2 Employees may avail of a salary advance only once in a Twelve -month period. 4. Application Process 4.1 Employees must submit a written request through HR, specifying the reason for the advance. 4.2 The request should be approved by the HR department. 4.3 Final approval will be at the discretion of the Finance Department and Senior management. 5. Timeline Process 5.1 All salary advance requests will be processed within a timeline of 7 working days from the date of submission. In case of genuine emergencies, requests will be reviewed and prioritized on a case-by-case basis. 6. Repayment Terms 6.1 The salary advance will be recovered in a maximum of six / nine/ twelve equal monthly instalments, starting from the subsequent payroll cycle. 6.2 The instalments will be deducted directly from the employee’s salary. 6.3 For early repayment the notification may be sent to HR department and Finance department on or before 15th of that month. 7. Interest and Tax Implications 7.1 No interest will be charged on the salary advance. 7.2 Applicable tax regulations will be followed and deductions, if any, will be adjusted accordingly. 8. Exceptions and Special Cases 8.1 In cases of extreme financial hardship, management may approve a higher amount or a longer repayment period on a case-by-case basis. 8.2 Any such exceptions must be documented and approved by the HR department. 8.3 HR department decision shall be final for all the exceptions. 9. Confidentiality 9.1 All requests for salary advances will be handled with confidentiality and discretion. 10. Policy Review & Amendments 1. This policy will be reviewed periodically and is subject to change at the company’s discretion.